---
layout: page
title: Our History
---

## Prehistory

Although many universities had bona fide a cappella groups quite early, Cornell did not
really adopt the trend until the 1980s when previously non-a cappella groups such as
Cayuga’s Waiters, The Hangovers, and Nothing But Treble became a cappella. In 1983, The
Touchstones became the first a cappella group to be founded as an a cappella group. The
Class Notes were next, founded later that same year. The Class Notes are absolutely the
first mixed a cappella group at Cornell.

## The Foundation

The Class Notes was founded in 1983 by Justine Johnson, David Lefkowitz, and Tim Peierls.
Their goal was to start a mixed-voice group (still a reasonably novel concept, although
other Ivy League schools, such as Princeton and Yale, already had them). The original idea
was to create a sort of blend between jazz and pop styles. 

Finding a niche for mixed-voice a cappella was not always easy as there were not really
any popular choral ensembles for mixed voices; only the Sage Chapel Choir and the Cornell
Chorale—which were more community organizations than student groups—provided mixed-voice
singing. Even the Songs of Cornell book from that period contained no mixed-voice
arrangements! Mixed-voice groups were still relatively rare in the national collegiate a
cappella scene, and there was an opinion (which still persists to some degree in the
present) among many people that men and women cannot develop a natural blend with each
other and so mixed-voice groups would necessarily be inferior to the single-sex groups. 

However, the group was always able to attract talented members and built, even in the
early days, a reputation of excellence among its relatively narrow group of fans. 

Over time, the jazz roots of the group were gradually phased out. The group has performed
a repertoire of primarily recent pop for about fifteen years.

## Cuttin' Class and the Cornell Jamboree

The Cornell Jamboree was established in the 1984-1985 academic year as a concert featuring
the active a cappella groups at that time: Cayuga's Waiters, The Hangovers, Nothing But
Treble, The Touchtones, and The Class Notes. Each group would perform for about twenty
minutes. 

In addition, The Class Notes had their own annual show, also established in the 1984-1985
academic year: Cuttin' Class. Traditionally, each a cappella group had one major show a
year. The Class Notes considered Jamboree to be a major show and so would schedule Cuttin'
Class for whichever semester did not contain Jamboree. 

The Class Notes always had a substantial fan base; however, Jamboree V in Fall 1988 was
the first time The Class Notes received serious popular press. This moved the group
forward in the public eye.

## The First Album

In the 1980s album recording was prohibitively expensive for most a cappella groups at
Cornell and everywhere. Although The Class Notes were not able to afford the high costs of
recording, the group received a generous long-term interest-free loan from the family of
one of the members enabling them to record Out On The Arts Quad in 1990. This album was
released on cassette, normal for the time.

## The Subsequent Albums

The Class Notes were fortunate to receive a loan for the production of the first album,
but they could not count on such generosity forever. The group wanted its second album to
be released on compact disc, but they did not have the funds to record a major album. So,
in 1994, The Class Notes released Naturally, the second album, and the first on compact
disc, as a compilation of live concert tracks from Cuttin' Class VII, VIII, and IX. 

Although it would not be fair to say that recording has become cheap, modern technology
has made affordable, high-quality recordings available even to younger, less established,
less affluent groups. As a result, The Class Notes has been able to release new
studio-recorded albums every two or three years since 1994, albeit not without sacrifice
and belt-tightening: Destinations (1996), Break The Silence (1998), Afterhours (2001),
Unfolded (2004), Hint of Lime (2007).

## Classified

In the late 1990's, The Class Notes started an annual fall concert of their own. This
concert was originally called All For A Dollar, but in 2000, the name was changed to
Classified, presumably because The Class Notes wanted to charge more than a dollar for the
show! Classified is still the name of annual fall concert just as Cuttin' Class is still
the name of the annual spring concert.

## "Only You"

"Only You" is a song recorded by Yaz in 1982. It was covered in 1983 by the professional
British a cappella group The Flying Pickets. This version reached Number One on the
British charts. Don Snow, a member of The Class Notes, arranged this song for the group
during the 1986-1987 academic year. Prior to this time, The Class Notes had no well-known
signature tune. 

"Only You" has always been popular with the fans, and, over time, the song was performed
more and more frequently. By the mid-1990s, “Only You” became the signature song of the
group, traditionally sung at the end of each major concert with alumni invited up from the
audience. 

"Only You" is the only song to appear on all seven of The Class Notes' albums.

## Tour

The Class Notes started going on tour during Cornell's Spring Break; although, since the
mid-2000s, the tour has occurred during the Fall Break. Usually, The Class Notes visit
destinations within driving distance of Ithaca, such as New York City, Washington, D.C.,
and Boston. However, the 2008 tour was a trip to southern Florida, and, in 1999, The Class
Notes made their first international tour to Jamaica.

## The Present

The Class Notes are still going strong. Over one hundred fifty men and women have been a
part of this ensemble, and over the last twenty-five years have performed over three
hundred distinct songs and have released seven albums. When The Class Notes began it was
one of five a cappella groups on campus and the only mixed group. At present, there are
thirteen a cappella groups at Cornell, five of which are mixed (and only three of which
are male) demonstrating a new a cappella norm on campus and demonstrating the influence
The Class Notes had and still has on the campus a cappella community. 

*Compiled by Andy Poe*
